always keep your phone at room
temperature it might not charge
beyond 80 percent if it's placed in
direct sunlight in a hot car
or in your pocket with a portable
charger take the phone case off
your case is probably made of material
that stops the heat from getting out
the lithium ion battery inside your
phone is most effective when it's cool
just like me too much heat slows it down
and wears it out
the hotter the battery the slower the
charging process
stick to using a wall socket the usb
port on your computer or in your car
won't do your gadget any harm because it
has lower amperage
but it will do the job about two times
slower
plugging your phone into a high up wall
socket and letting it hang from the wall
isn't safe
the easiest way to get around this is to
plug it in and make a loop out of the
cord
let your phone hang down inside the loop
make sure it rests evenly within it
so that it won't fall out you can also
make a phone holder from a flattened
plastic bottle
draw a horizontal line around one side
where you want the front of the holder
to be
draw a higher slightly curved horizontal
line on the other side
cut the shape out of the bottle with
scissors including a hole
on the higher side for the charger to go
through use sandpaper to smooth out the
surface
you can wrap it in fabric duct tape or
gift paper
if you have to charge via your pc you
can't speed things up
turn on the charge only option your
gadget will normally ask if you want to
do this when you plug it into the usb
port charging without transferring data
is a lot faster
plan b is to use a portable power bank
in most cases one of these will actually
be faster at charging your phone than a
wall socket
keep it fully charged so that you're
prepared for anything
make sure you also have a reliable cable
for the power bank
now speaking of cables the one you use
can be a real game changer
there are four wires inside a phone
cable two for data transfer
and two for charging they determine the
limit of your charging speed
if you want to charge faster upgrade
from a standard cable to a high
quality one use the right charger
for this you need to know how much power
your phone can handle
a 15 watt charger is more powerful than
a 5 watt one
which is what most phones come with if
your gadget can handle say 12 watts
getting a more powerful charger will
speed up the process
fast chargers increase both the amperage
and the voltage
but different phone brands support
different fast charging standards
qualcomm's quick charge standard is good
for samsung phones and most other
androids
but your iphone will love the usb power
delivery standard more
try just leaving your phone alone even
touching the screen to check what time
it is can be a big drain on the battery
the less you touch it the faster you'll
get to a decent battery percentage
but if you can't resist the temptation
just turn it off
this is the easiest way to stop yourself
from endlessly scrolling browsing
checking your inbox and likes and
checking how much your battery charge
has gone up
turn on airplane mode this can double
charging speed for some phone models
this is because it shuts down all the
radio components like the cellular radio
gps and bluetooth plus if you're in an
area with bad coverage
airplane mode will stop your phone
wasting battery looking for a signal
can't survive an hour without your
beloved gadget oh my
then at least stop your apps from
refreshing in the background
to save even more battery charge reduce
your screen brightness and disable all
notifications on the lock screen
check your lightning port if there's a
build up of dust and lint in there
like your belly button your phone is
going to charge at a slower rate
first turn off your phone then carefully
remove any dirt from the port with a
toothpick
or something similar if you have an
iphone it probably has
optimized battery charging turned on by
default this function
studies your charging habits and slows
down charging at 80 percent
and when you're asleep if you need to
charge your phone up asap
touch and hold the notification you get
on the lock screen
indicating when the phone will be at 100
and tap
charge now wireless charging systems
aren't your best option if you're in a
hurry
energy transfers faster through a
physical cable
plus all that energy spreading around
with wireless heats up your phone
always keep your phone charger dry even
a tiny drop of water can slow it down
or damage it beyond repair if your
charger does end up getting an
unplanned shower it's a good idea to
replace it
because you can't be sure if it's safe
to use anymore
keep your os up to date the latest
version always has patches and fixes for
all sorts of issues
including charging problems plus newer
operating systems work better with newer
technologies
like the fast charging feature on
android phones
all these tips are great but they're not
always the most exciting right
there's plenty of new technology out
there for you to try
that can turn literally anything into
energy for your phone
a computer fan can be turned into an eye
fan
by that i mean a portable wind turbine
that turns
wind power into smartphone energy it
takes around six
hours to fully charge a gadget sounds
too slow
well you can hold it out of a car window
or connect it to a bike to speed it up
if you're a good biker you'll get up to
one hundred percent
in two to three hours and all that using
green
energy but if bike riding isn't for you
then you can power your own fan with a
hand crank charger
a minute of hard work will give you
enough power for a few texts
or even a short phone call plus it's a
great workout
yeah for one arm some gadgets use solar
power to recharge your phone
another type of portable charger that
works instantly and even in cloudy
weather
is a water charger it transforms
hydrogen gas into electricity
and it will power up your device pretty
quickly
camping fans will appreciate the pan
charger there's a little element in the
pan's base that transforms heat into
energy
you set the pan over a campfire and the
energy travels down a usb
cord right into your phone or any other
gadget you want to charge in the wild
i thought camping was to get away from
it all you can also get chargers that
are powered by the energy of hot and
cold substances
put a cup of steaming coffee a burning
candle or an ice cube on it
and it will do the job just like a
regular charger
at big music festivals fans can now
literally
wear their chargers there are t-shirts
that convert music vibrations into
electricity
they're powerful enough to give your
phone a little boost
rock on